docs: add explanation of encrypted training and federated learning (#437)
zama-ai/concrete-ml: docs/built-in-models/training.md

# Training on Encrypted Data

Concrete ML offers the possibility to train [SGD Logistic Regression](../developer-guide/api/concrete.ml.sklearn.linear_model.md#class-sgdclassifier) on encrypted data. The [logistic regression training](../advanced_examples/LogisticRegressionTraining.ipynb) example shows this feature in action.

This example shows how to instantiate a logistic regression model that trains on encrypted data:

```python
from concrete.ml.sklearn import SGDClassifier

> parameters_range = (-1.0, 1.0)

Reviewer: maybe we should also explain a bit what `parameters_range` refers to and why it's set to -1, 1 here

model = SGDClassifier(
    random_state=42,
    max_iter=50,
    fit_encrypted=True,
    parameters_range=parameters_range,
)
```

To activate encrypted training simply set `fit_encrypted=True` in the constructor. If this value is not set, training is performed
on clear data using `scikit-learn` gradient descent.

Next, to perform the training on encrypted data, call the `fit` function with the `fhe="execute"` argument:

<!--pytest-codeblocks:skip-->

```python
model.fit(X_binary, y_binary, fhe="execute")
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Training on encrypted data provides the highest level of privacy but is slower than training on clear data. Federated learning is an alternative approach, where data privacy can be ensured by using a trusted gradient aggregator, coupled with optional _differential privacy_ instead of encryption. Concrete ML
can import linear models, including logistic regression, that are trained using federated learning using the [`from_sklearn` function](linear.md#pre-trained-models).

{% endhint %}

## Training configuration

> The `max_iter` parameter controls the number of batches that are processed by the training algorithm.

Reviewer: this is a parameter from sklearn, I think we can remove it no ?

Reviewer: I would maybe emphasize on that then ! saying that's it's important for whatever reasons

> The `parameters_range` parameter determines the initialization of the coefficients and the bias of the logistic regression. It is recommended to give values that are close to the min/max of the training data. It is also possible to normalize the training data so that it lies in the range $$[-1, 1]$$.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should add that this isn't just for initialization but also for quantization?

# Training on Encrypted Data

Concrete ML offers the possibility to train [SGD Logistic Regression](../developer-guide/api/concrete.ml.sklearn.linear_model.md#class-sgdclassifier) on encrypted data. The [logistic regression training](../advanced_examples/LogisticRegressionTraining.ipynb) example shows this feature in action.

> This example shows how to instantiate a logistic regression model that trains on encrypted data:

Reviewer: `instantiate a logistic regression ` -> `instantiate an SGD classifier`

```python
parameters_range = (-1.0, 1.0)

> sgd_clf_binary_simulate = SGDClassifier(

Reviewer: not sure why this model is named `sgd_clf_binary_simulate` . I'm mostly taking about this "simulate" part, but I think you can just name it `model` or `model_encrypted_fit` for simplicity

Reviewer 3: Agreed let's make codeblock very user friendly.

    random_state=RANDOM_STATE,
    max_iter=N_ITERATIONS,
    fit_encrypted=True,
    parameters_range=parameters_range,
)
```

To activate encrypted training simply set `fit_encrypted=True` in the constructor. If this value is not set, training is performed
on clear data using `scikit-learn` gradient descent.

Next, to perform the training on encrypted data, call the `fit` function with the `fhe="execute"` argument:

<!--pytest-codeblocks:skip-->

```python

> sgd_clf_binary_fhe.fit(X_binary, y_binary, fhe="execute")

Reviewer: I would keep the same name as defined above

```

{% hint style="info" %}

> Training on encrypted data provides the highest level of privacy but is slower than training on clear data. Federated learning is an alternative approach, where data privacy can be ensured through _differential privacy_ instead of encryption. Concrete ML

Author: I think we should talk about it. People care about PPML not specific solutions, if we can show how FHE and FL/DP are complementary then we should.

I mention DP because that's what brings the privacy to FL. Do you not agree?

> Training on encrypted data provides the highest level of privacy but is slower than training on clear data. Federated learning is an alternative approach, where data privacy can be ensured through _differential privacy_ instead of encryption. Concrete ML

Reviewer 3: > I mention DP because that's what brings the privacy to FL

FL is a privacy training tech as is. Not sure how DP is is related here.

> Training on encrypted data provides the highest level of privacy but is slower than training on clear data. Federated learning is an alternative approach, where data privacy can be ensured through _differential privacy_ instead of encryption. Concrete ML

Author: ok, good point

can import linear models, including logistic regression, that are trained using federated learning using the [`from_sklearn` function](linear.md#pre-trained-models).

{% endhint %}

## Training configuration

> The `max_iter` parameter controls the number of batches that are processed by the training algorithm. Good values for this parameter are 8-64.

Reviewer 3: > 8-64

what is this ? I would just say "Default value is..."  I don't think we can have a rule here.

Author: error on my part

The `parameters_range` parameter determines the initialization of the coefficients and the bias of the logistic regression. It is recommended to give values that are close to the min/max of the training data. It is also possible to normalize the training data so that it lies in the range $$[-1, 1]$$.

## Capabilities and Limitations

The logistic model that can be trained uses Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) and quantizes for data, weights, gradients and the error measure. It currently supports training 6-bit models, training both the coefficients and the bias.

> The `SGDClassifier` does not currently support training models with other values for the bit-widths. Second, the time to train the model

Reviewer: not sure why the second sentence starts with `Second`

Reviewer 4: I agree -- I think it would read fine with it removed:
`The execution time of a single iteration
is proportional to the number of features and the number of training samples in the batch.`

> The `SGDClassifier` does not currently support training models with other values for the bit-widths. Second, the time to train the model
> is proportional to the number of features and the number of training examples.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `SGDClassifier` does not currently support training models with other values for the bit-widths. Second, the execution time of a single iteration
is proportional to the number of features and the number of training samples in the batch.
```
